docs/source/templates/bootstrap/pixel-bootstrap.rst, before:

`Pixel UI Kit <https://themesberg.com/product/ui-kit/pixel-free-bootstrap-5-ui-kit>`__ 
======================================================================================

**Pixel UI Kit** is a premium Bootstrap-based UI toolkit from Themesberg that combines modern design aesthetics with extensive functionality. 
The kit is known for its pixel-perfect design system, comprehensive component library, and attention to detail in both visual and technical implementation.

- 👉 `Pixel UI Kit <https://themesberg.com/product/ui-kit/pixel-free-bootstrap-5-ui-kit>`__ - Product page 
- 👉 `Pixel UI Kit <https://demo.themesberg.com/pixel-bootstrap-5-ui-kit/>`__ - Live Demo

.. include::  /_templates/components/banner-top.rst

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/168753915-d61b2f97-57b2-4d14-a774-d217d120ff62.png
   :alt: Pixel UI Kit - Open-source UI Kit from Themesberg 

Project Architecture
--------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    pixel-ui-kit/
        ├── dist/                    # Compiled files
        │   ├── css/
        │   ├── js/
        │   ├── vendor/
        │   └── img/
        ├── src/
        │   ├── assets/
        │   │   ├── img/
        │   │   │   ├── brand/
        │   │   │   ├── icons/
        │   │   │   └── illustrations/
        │   │   ├── js/
        │   │   │   ├── core/
        │   │   │   ├── components/
        │   │   │   └── pixel.js
        │   │   └── scss/
        │   │       ├── components/
        │   │       ├── mixins/
        │   │       ├── custom/
        │   │       └── pixel.scss
        │   ├── partials/
        │   └── pages/
        ├── docs/
        └── gulpfile.js

Component System
----------------

Advanced Cards
**************

Pixel UI Kit provides sophisticated card components:

.. code-block:: html

    <div class="card border-light shadow-soft">
        <div class="card-header p-3">
            <div class="row align-items-center">
                <div class="col">
                    <h2 class="h5 mb-0">Card Title</h2>
                </div>
                <div class="col">
                    <div class="d-flex align-items-center justify-content-end">
                        <!-- Card actions -->
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="card-body">
            <div class="d-flex align-items-center">
                <!-- Card content -->
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>    

Form Components
***************

Enhanced form elements with Pixel styling:

.. code-block:: html

    <form>
        <!-- Input with icon -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <div class="input-group mb-4">
                <span class="input-group-text">
                    <span class="fas fa-search"></span>
                </span>
                <input class="form-control" placeholder="Search" type="text">
            </div>
        </div>
        
        <!-- Custom select -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <select class="custom-select" id="exampleCustomSelect">
                <option selected>Open this select menu</option>
                <option value="1">One</option>
                <option value="2">Two</option>
                <option value="3">Three</option>
            </select>
        </div>
        
        <!-- Custom range -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <label class="form-control-label">Custom Range</label>
            <div class="input-slider-container">
                <div id="input-slider" class="input-slider"></div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </form>    

Charts and Data Visualization
-----------------------------

.. code-block:: javascript

    // Line chart configuration
    const lineChartConfig = {
        type: 'line',
        data: {
            labels: ['January', 'February', 'March', 'April', 'May', 'June'],
            datasets: [{
                label: 'Performance',
                data: [65, 59, 80, 81, 56, 55],
                borderColor: pixelKit.colors.primary,
                tension: 0.4,
                pointRadius: 0,
                borderWidth: 4
            }]
        },
        options: {
            responsive: true,
            plugins: {
                legend: {
                    display: false
                }
            },
            scales: {
                y: {
                    grid: {
                        display: false
                    }
                },
                x: {
                    grid: {
                        display: false
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    };   

Resources
---------

- Documentation: Themesberg docs
- Support: Through Themesberg support system
- Updates: Regular through npm
- Community: Themesberg forums

Keep your Pixel UI Kit updated for the latest features and security patches.     

.. include::  /_templates/components/footer-links.rst

Commit message:

[DOCS] Update Bootstrap Templates Section

docs/source/templates/bootstrap/pixel-bootstrap.rst, after:

`Pixel UI Kit <https://themesberg.com/product/ui-kit/pixel-free-bootstrap-5-ui-kit>`__ 
======================================================================================

.. title:: Pixel UI Kit -  Open-source material-design UI Kit created by ThemesBerg
.. meta::
    :description: Open-source UI Kit with pixel patterns built on top of Bootstrap 5

**Pixel UI Kit** is a premium Bootstrap-based UI toolkit from Themesberg that combines modern design aesthetics with extensive functionality. 
The kit is known for its pixel-perfect design system, comprehensive component library, and attention to detail in both visual and technical implementation.

- 👉 `Pixel UI Kit <https://themesberg.com/product/ui-kit/pixel-free-bootstrap-5-ui-kit>`__ - Product page 
- 👉 `Pixel UI Kit <https://demo.themesberg.com/pixel-bootstrap-5-ui-kit/>`__ - Live Demo

.. include::  /_templates/components/banner-top.rst

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/168753915-d61b2f97-57b2-4d14-a774-d217d120ff62.png
   :alt: Pixel UI Kit - Open-source UI Kit from Themesberg 

Project Architecture
--------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    pixel-ui-kit/
        ├── dist/                    # Compiled files
        │   ├── css/
        │   ├── js/
        │   ├── vendor/
        │   └── img/
        ├── src/
        │   ├── assets/
        │   │   ├── img/
        │   │   │   ├── brand/
        │   │   │   ├── icons/
        │   │   │   └── illustrations/
        │   │   ├── js/
        │   │   │   ├── core/
        │   │   │   ├── components/
        │   │   │   └── pixel.js
        │   │   └── scss/
        │   │       ├── components/
        │   │       ├── mixins/
        │   │       ├── custom/
        │   │       └── pixel.scss
        │   ├── partials/
        │   └── pages/
        ├── docs/
        └── gulpfile.js

Component System
----------------

Advanced Cards
**************

Pixel UI Kit provides sophisticated card components:

.. code-block:: html

    <div class="card border-light shadow-soft">
        <div class="card-header p-3">
            <div class="row align-items-center">
                <div class="col">
                    <h2 class="h5 mb-0">Card Title</h2>
                </div>
                <div class="col">
                    <div class="d-flex align-items-center justify-content-end">
                        <!-- Card actions -->
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="card-body">
            <div class="d-flex align-items-center">
                <!-- Card content -->
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>    

Form Components
***************

Enhanced form elements with Pixel styling:

.. code-block:: html

    <form>
        <!-- Input with icon -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <div class="input-group mb-4">
                <span class="input-group-text">
                    <span class="fas fa-search"></span>
                </span>
                <input class="form-control" placeholder="Search" type="text">
            </div>
        </div>
        
        <!-- Custom select -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <select class="custom-select" id="exampleCustomSelect">
                <option selected>Open this select menu</option>
                <option value="1">One</option>
                <option value="2">Two</option>
                <option value="3">Three</option>
            </select>
        </div>
        
        <!-- Custom range -->
        <div class="form-group">
            <label class="form-control-label">Custom Range</label>
            <div class="input-slider-container">
                <div id="input-slider" class="input-slider"></div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </form>    

Charts and Data Visualization
-----------------------------

.. code-block:: javascript

    // Line chart configuration
    const lineChartConfig = {
        type: 'line',
        data: {
            labels: ['January', 'February', 'March', 'April', 'May', 'June'],
            datasets: [{
                label: 'Performance',
                data: [65, 59, 80, 81, 56, 55],
                borderColor: pixelKit.colors.primary,
                tension: 0.4,
                pointRadius: 0,
                borderWidth: 4
            }]
        },
        options: {
            responsive: true,
            plugins: {
                legend: {
                    display: false
                }
            },
            scales: {
                y: {
                    grid: {
                        display: false
                    }
                },
                x: {
                    grid: {
                        display: false
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    };   

Resources
---------

- Documentation: Themesberg docs
- Support: Through Themesberg support system
- Updates: Regular through npm
- Community: Themesberg forums

Keep your Pixel UI Kit updated for the latest features and security patches.     

.. include::  /_templates/components/footer-links.rst
