Integrate React
===============

This page explains how to integrate React in your Django project.

.. include::  /_templates/components/banner-top.rst

React is one of the most popular front-end frameworks, known for its flexibility in creating dynamic user interfaces. Integrating it with Django, a robust back-end framework, can lead to a powerful full-stack application setup with a single codebase. This guide walks you through integrating a React page into Django using Webpack, simplifying both development and deployment.

Project Setup
-------------

To get started, let’s create a Django project and add a new app that will host our React frontend. Open your terminal and follow these steps.

1. **Clone the project**: First, set up the Django project by cloning it from a Git repository.

   .. code-block:: bash

      git clone -b base https://github.com/app-generator/docs-django-drf.git
      cd docs-django-drf

2. **Create a Virtual Environment**: Inside the cloned directory, create a virtual environment to manage Python dependencies.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python3 -m venv venv
      source venv/bin/activate

3. **Install Django Dependencies**: With the virtual environment active, install Django and other required packages.

   .. code-block:: bash

      pip install -r requirements.txt

With Django set up, we can now proceed to integrate React using Webpack.

Setting Up React with Webpack
-----------------------------

To serve a React component from Django, we’ll set up Webpack as our JavaScript bundler. This setup enables Django to serve the static files generated by React, making it possible to develop both the back end and front end in the same project.

### Why Use Webpack?

**Webpack** is a powerful tool for bundling JavaScript and other assets, especially for larger applications with complex front ends like React. It transforms and optimizes code into small, manageable files and helps improve the loading speed by bundling and compressing resources. Webpack also allows for live reloading in development, meaning it rebuilds assets whenever changes are made.

Step 1: Set Up the Django Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. **Create a new directory called frontend**: Inside your Django project directory, create a new directory named ``frontend`` to host the React files.

   .. code-block:: bash

      mkdir frontend/src/

2. **Configure Django Settings**: Open ``settings.py`` in your Django project and configure the ``STATICFILES_DIRS`` setting to include the static files for the frontend.

   .. code-block:: python

      STATICFILES_DIRS = [
          BASE_DIR / "frontend/static",
      ]

Step 2: Create React and Webpack Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. **Create Frontend Directories**: Inside the ``frontend`` app, create the necessary directories for your React setup:

   .. code-block:: bash

      mkdir -p frontend/static/frontend
      mkdir -p templates/templates/frontend

2. **Initialize NPM and Install Dependencies**: Initialize a new npm project and install React, Webpack, and Babel.

   .. code-block:: bash

      npm init -y
      npm install react react-dom
      npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli webpack-bundle-tracker @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react babel-loader

3. **Create Webpack Configuration**: Create a file named ``webpack.config.js`` with the following content to define Webpack settings:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      const path = require("path");
      const BundleTracker = require("webpack-bundle-tracker");

      module.exports = {
          entry: "fronted/src/index.js",
          output: {
              path: path.resolve("frontend/static/frontend/"),
              filename: "main.bundle.js",
              publicPath: "/static/frontend/",
          },
          module: {
              rules: [
                  {
                      test: /\.js$/,
                      exclude: /node_modules/,
                      use: {
                          loader: "babel-loader",
                          options: {
                              presets: ["@babel/preset-env", "@babel/preset-react"],
                          },
                      },
                  },
              ],
          },
          plugins: [
              new BundleTracker({ filename: "./webpack-stats.json" }),
          ],
          mode: "development",
      };

4. **Configure Babel**: Add a ``.babelrc`` file in ``frontend/static/frontend`` to define presets for Babel:

   .. code-block:: json

      {
          "presets": ["@babel/preset-env", "@babel/preset-react"]
      }

5. **Why Babel?** Babel enables you to use the latest JavaScript syntax (ES6+) in your React app and transpile it into JavaScript that all browsers can understand. This is essential for compatibility, as not all browsers natively support the latest JavaScript features used by React.

6. **Create React App Files**: Inside ``frontend/src/``, create a ``src`` directory with two files: ``index.js``.

   .. code-block::

      // frontend/src/index.js
      import React from "react";
      import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";

      export default function App() {
        return (
          <div>
            <h1>This is a react Application</h1>
          </div>
        );
      }

      const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("app"));
      root.render(<App />);

7. **Build the React App**: Run Webpack to build the React files:

   .. code-block:: bash

      npm run dev

This command tells Webpack to bundle your React code into a single file (``main.bundle.js``) in the ``frontend/static/frontend`` directory, making it easy for Django to serve it as a static file.

Step 3: Configure Django to Use Webpack Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To render the Webpack bundle in Django, we need to use ``django-webpack-loader``, which integrates Django with Webpack bundles by tracking the output files.

### Why Use ``django-webpack-loader``?

``django-webpack-loader`` reads the ``webpack-stats.json`` file generated by Webpack to dynamically include the bundled JavaScript files in Django templates. This is useful because it allows Django to reference the latest bundle file each time Webpack rebuilds, eliminating the need for hardcoded paths in templates.

1. **Install** ``django-webpack-loader``: Install ``django-webpack-loader`` in the root of your Django project:

   .. code-block:: bash

      pip install django-webpack-loader

2. **Add** ``webpack_loader`` to ``INSTALLED_APPS``: Add ``webpack_loader`` to ``INSTALLED_APPS`` in ``settings.py`` and configure it to point to ``webpack-stats.json``:

   .. code-block:: python

      INSTALLED_APPS = [
          ...
          'webpack_loader',
          ...
      ]

      WEBPACK_LOADER = {
          'DEFAULT': {
              'BUNDLE_DIR_NAME': 'frontend/',  # Location of bundled files
              'STATS_FILE': BASE_DIR / 'webpack-stats.json',
          }
      }

3. **Create a Django Template for React**: In ``templates/frontend``, create ``index.html`` to render the React component:

   .. code-block:: html

      <!DOCTYPE html>
      <html lang="en">
      <head>
          <meta charset="UTF-8">
          <title>React in Django</title>
          {% load render_bundle from webpack_loader %}
          {% render_bundle 'frontend' %}
      </head>
      <body>
          <div id="react-root"></div>
      </body>
      </html>

Here, ``{% render_bundle 'frontend' %}`` dynamically includes the JavaScript bundle in the template, allowing the React component to render.

Step 4: Set Up Django View and URLs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To display the React page, set up a Django view and URL configuration.

1. **Create a Django View**: In ``home/views.py``, create a view to render the template:

   .. code-block:: python

      # home/views.py
      from django.shortcuts import render

      def frontend(request):
          return render(request, 'frontend/index.html')

2. **Add URL Configuration**: In ``home/urls.py``, add a URL pattern for the view:

   .. code-block:: python

      # home/urls.py
      from django.urls import path
      from . import views

      urlpatterns = [
          path('', views.index, name='index'),
          path('frontend', views.frontend, name='frontend'),
      ]

Step 5: Run the Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. **Run Webpack in Development Mode**: At the root of the project, run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      npm run dev

   This will automatically rebuild the bundle when files are modified.

2. **Run the Django Server**: In a new terminal window, start the Django server:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python manage.py runserver

3. **Test the Setup**: Visit `http://127.0.0.1:8000/frontend/` in your browser. You should see:

   ::

      Hello from React!
      This is a React component rendered in Django.

Conclusion
----------

In this guide, we set up a simple React page within a Django project using Webpack to bundle and serve React as static files. This setup combines Django’s backend power with React’s front-end capabilities, creating a flexible and efficient development environment for full-stack applications.

You can find the code for the project here https://github.com/app-generator/docs-django-react


.. include::  /_templates/components/footer-links.rst
